# TrendyWedding
Preliminary results and figure for the TrendyWedding app that analyzes twitter wedding data.
	The average wedding in the United States costs about $29,900 and has risen by 14,700% since 1990.  In addition to the high costs, planning a wedding can exert a tremendous amount of stress on couples and families. On the other hand, the high costs of wedding means good business for party venues and vendors. Wedding ceremonies and receptions are always evolving, which can make it difficult to stay on top of recent fads and trends for the big day.  I plan to build a web application that will provide couples and companies with recent trends and information from social media data. I call this app “TrendyWedding”. 
	I see the web app having three functions. 1) based on twitter data, the app will find popular locations where people are currently getting married. This will include a breakdown of states (California vs Texas), cities (Los Angeles vs San Francisco), and areas (beach vs wine country).  This information will vary seasonally, thus TrendyWedding will provide current up to date information as well as historical data (so that users can see how the trends vary from season to season). 2) TrendyWedding will also provide information about the food and drink at the weddings. What are current trends in picking wedding colors? What are popular wines and beers to serve at wedding in San Diego? What types of entrées do people typically serve at summer weddings in Aspen?   3) The web application will also provide information about consumer behavior to wedding venues and wedding vendors. Did the guests enjoy the Charles Shaw merlot that was served? Did the groomsmen’s suits look tacky? Wedding-based businesses can gain insight into the consumer behavior data that will be provided by TrendyWedding.  
The web application will scrape data from twitter via a python program that utilizes the website API and the tweepy package. My python routine will simply filter posts that use the word “wedding”. The json library will be used to parse the streaming twitter output into individual variables and fields. Using Pandas data frames and the matplotlib package, I will develop python code that analyzes the data and plots recent and historical trends in the wedding world. Finally, TrendyWedding will be built on a python-Flask web framework and then deployed to the public. 
I have shown 2 preliminary results of streaming twitter data from the weekend of July 18th (Saturday and Sunday nights).  The first plot shows locations where people were tweeting about something relating to a wedding. This figure shows that wedding tweets were common in most areas of the US, especially along the eastcoast. The Midwest and Rocky Mountains were the regions that had the fewest wedding tweets, suggesting that these areas are less popular locations for weddings. Cities that had the most tweets are highlighted with larger data points, and color-coded on a rainbow scale (dark red being the most popular, followed by red, orange, yellow, green, blue, etc.).  Not surprisingly, cities with the largest populations had the largest number of wedding tweets: Los Angeles, Houston, and Chicago, and New York. However, the city with the fifth largest number of wedding tweets was Slidell, which is an unexpected result. Although San Francisco is not among the top cities, the Figure clearly shows that the surrounding areas are popular wedding destinations (e.g., wine country and Big Sur).  
The second plot shows the most popular colors included in the wedding tweets. Not surprisingly, “white weddings” were popular amongst the wedding tweets. However, white was not the most popular color like it may have been in past generations. Red was far and away the trendiest color, with over twice as many tweets as white (perhaps made popular from “Game of Thrones”?). Furthermore, black was almost as popular as the traditional white.  These results suggest a departure from traditional wedding colors (for this particular snippet of twitter data), with red being the new white when it comes to weddings. 
The results I presented are just the tip of the iceberg of what I’d like to do with the TrendyWedding application. The locations and popular colors I’ve highlighted here likely change over time, which will be shown and quantified by TrendyWedding. I also foresee using other social media data to provide more insights into popular wedding trends (e.g., instagram data). I see lots of potential with this web applicaiotn, and I look forward to working on the TrendyWeding project with people at Data Incubator.  
